Now that we've learned more about what disaster recovery is overall,
how do we do it in AWS?
What tools and services are at our disposal that will help us?
Geographic recovery.
Disaster recovery plans are intended to cover major service disruptions.
As such, a typical DR plan calls for re-establishing your platform a
minimum of hundreds of miles away into multi-region services.
If you need to prepare to be able to move hundreds of miles in AWS,
this means you need to be able to move regions.
If you are running active,
active in multiple regions, excellent, you're done.
However, as we've discussed,
the ease of running active,
active in multiple regions depends a lot on the services that you utilize.
We've already seen how DynamoDB and S3 can be made multi-region with relative ease.
Some global services such as IAM,
a multi-region by default,
while others like CloudFront can be made multi-region.
CloudFront takes your content from your source
and distributes it from multiple regions around the world.
In this sense, it is always multi-region.
However, by default, the source of your content,
your origin Cloudfront terms,
is only in one region and if that region fails,
your application is down.
With CloudFront origin groups,
you can define multiple S3 buckets in multiple regions as failover buckets.
If CloudFront is no longer able to get your content from the primary bucket,
it will then try a backup bucket.
Using this option, your CloudFront distribution can now survive a region failure.
DynamoDB can run in an active,
active scenario with fairly low cost and effort.
RDS can create cross-region read replicas.
These keep current data in another region,
but there will still be work to do to make that data usable as an active database.
You'll need to promote the read replica and then
point your application at this new database instance.
CloudFront can use multiple S3 buckets as
the origin for the same assets and automatically failover between them.
Origin groups within CloudFront can use S3 buckets in
different regions and failover when necessary without manual intervention.
S3 buckets can be automatically replicated across regions.
This provides a mechanism to keep current copies of S3 objects.
You do then pay double for storing these objects,
but that is the cost of being prepared for DR incident